We love the big things in life, flashes of light, explosions of color. We love setting fire to the rain and catching grenades. Love is running through the rain to a Snow Patrol soundtrack, massive heartbreak and untamed passion. Life is about the stories that make people cry, shakes them out of their slumber and propels them to greatness. But what about the in between? What about the times when love comes and goes and leaves only ambivalence, what about the trips where the sky stays closed and the days are slow? Are those the times we miss out on truly being human? Are we somehow removed from the great journey of life?

Sometimes I think we go through life waiting so desperately for the world to shake and turn upside, to us, that is authentic. Then I'm reminded of the story of Elijah (1 Kings 19), we've heard it a hundred times, but notice a key phrase:

> a great and strong wind tore the mountains and broke in pieces the rocks **before** the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind.
> 
> 1 Kings 19:11 ESV (emphasis added)

The wind, the fire, the earthquake they were the precursors to the presence, they signaled the coming of the glory

> &#8230;And after the fire the sound of a low whisper.
> 
> 1 Kings 19:12

and the glory was manifest in a whisper. Not everyday is filled with traditional 'miracles', divine intervention of the supernatural in way that is startling and majestic, not everyday are the dead raised, the lame healed and the demonized set free. Some days are simply routine, the same as the day before and the day before that, but in spite is this everyday is filled with a promise.

> Whether you turn to the right or to the left, your ears will hear a voice behind you, saying, “This is the way; walk in it.”
> 
> Isaiah 30:21

I'm reminded of something we did at my [church][1] a couple of years ago, sharing stories of victory and triumph, of dramatic changes that left us in tears and full of hope. It was a powerful and spirit filled morning and I strongly encourage you to watch the video





but I wonder if we need to take it a step further, perhaps there's another level we've been ignoring. We all have stories of victory in the small things, of guidance in the minutia, of times when the outcomes are simple and seem to have no real purpose, maybe we should be sharing the times when instead of the earthquakes the simple voice 'this is the way, walk in it.' Because isn't that in itself miraculous? The idea that the God of the Universe, Yahweh of Armies, the cloud-rider himself would concern himself with us and our everyday humdrum existences to the extent that he desires to complete in us a great work, to make us more like his son, holy and without blemish.

[1]: http://heartlandfw.org