Yesterday I met up with a group of kids from DIS who live with host families within a small radius of me, a few of them I&#8217;d met before but most were new faces and as none of them were in my core program it was nice to branch out a bit.

We met in downtown Roskilde [Ross-killa], the main city in our area, and walked through the city center by the Cathedral (the oldest in Denmark) which sits on a pedestrian only street (which seem to be all the rage in Europe) and serves as a central meeting point.

I think it&#8217;s important to point how unbelievably cold it was yesterday. The amount of time we spent walking around meant I didn&#8217;t regain feeling in my toes until after I&#8217;d gotten home around 5pm (and I was wearing wool socks, albeit not very good ones). This temperature extreme meant we became well acquainted with a home goods store (with a very Cindy Harvey feel), a toy store, a cafe´ and an old shoppe at the Roskilde museum that resembled something out of the 1840s.

Finally our guide (a student at the University of Roskilde) remembered that the <a title="Roskilde Museum of Modern Art" href="http://samtidskunst.dk/en" target="_blank"><em>Roskilde Museum of Modern Art</em></a> was featuring a new exhibit called _Never Odd or Even_ (so 0?) that had free admission for students.

I have a mixed relationship with modern art, for the most part I enjoy it, but I often struggle to identify with the major themes of the artist. Often I feel there&#8217;s a sort of pretension that comes from the artist knowing that you&#8217;re not a part of their art conversation, and enjoying that. But I digress, what was really fascinating to me was the fact that all the artwork was in English but the explanations about the pieces were in Danish. Maybe that&#8217;s the point? I really don&#8217;t know anymore.

I snapped a couple of pictures with my phone (as my D40 still hasn&#8217;t been charged) and uploaded them for you viewing pleasure, I think some of the pieces were really cool, especially the Helvetica ones.



_[AFG_gallery id=&#8217;1&#8242;]_