<div class="kcite-section" kcite-section-id="221">
  <p>
    Recently, I had the opportunity to listen to a sermon focused on what seems to be every pastor&#8217;s favorite topic. Servant Leadership. The sermon followed a pretty typical pattern, admonishing those who serve without service, a silly newcomer who wishes to serve in a higher role, but balks at the thought of cleaning toilets, and a verbalization of the Church order in which everyone starts at the bottom and gets &#8216;promoted&#8217; as the spirit guides the leadership. We&#8217;ve all heard these sermons before and we&#8217;ve all been in situations where we feel the Church should&#8217;ve done a better job of catering to our wants and needs, but there are some fundamental flaws with this line of thinking that I feel warrents further exploration.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Before I got any further, I want to point out the fact that I have tremendous respect for the pastor that delivered the sermon in question, and that while I may take issue with some of the points, the overarching principle of being faithful in service to the Lord and to the authority of your local Church should never be put in question. That being said, I think some things were missed that deserve more then a cursory glance.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    1. The idea the everyone starts cleaning toilets in order to prove their commitment and service may be valuable in the sense that it weeds out those who are just looking for a platform for their own glory. In reality what is says is &#8216;everyone&#8217;s the same,
  </p>
  
  <p>
    1. One of the biggest issues I have with this premise is that it places the leadership, and primarily the pastor, in a position of ultimate authority. I&#8217;m not suggesting that pastors don&#8217;t inhabit a special place in the spiritual hierarchy, or that we&#8217;re not to be subject to them as shepherds of the local flock, but that this model leaves a tremendous amount of room for any unhappiness with the status quo to be brushed aside with a: &#8216;we just do what God tells us.&#8217; While in an ideal world this might be the case, in reality we know that pastors are flawed (just like the rest of us) and don&#8217;t always hear God perfectly, or respond immediately to his nudging. It seems to me that instead of placing the weight of service
  </p>
  
  <!-- kcite active, but no citations found -->
</div>

<!-- kcite-section 221 -->