<div class="kcite-section" kcite-section-id="482">
  <p>
    Tonight, I had the opportunity to lead the discussions at my InterVarsity small group and finish up with the last study in our book (really more of a pamphlet) <em>Flourishing in Grad School</em>. Since it was the last night they decided to go easy on us and focus on a passage of scripture familiar to pretty much everyone and with only surface level theological meaning. Ezekiel 37:1-14, the Valley of Dry Bones. It&#8217;s been quite a few years since I last journeyed to those biblical pages and aside from the terrific Robin Mark song I haven&#8217;t given it much thought. Tonight however, we had some excellent discussion (thanks more to the quality of the group then the insight of the facilitator) and I&#8217;d like to try and unpack it for you, if it&#8217;s not ok with you, then I suggest you mosey over <a title="Sinners" href="https://www.google.com/search?hl=en&site=&tbm=isch&source=hp&biw=1440&bih=726&q=shy+cats&oq=shy+cats&gs_l=img.3..0j0i24l3.746.1811.0.1957.8.8.0.0.0.0.185.406.7j1.8.0...0.0...1ac.1.3.img.R4IZE_UQM8Y" target="_blank">here</a>, it&#8217;s probably more your speed.   For those of you still left, let&#8217;s get started.
  </p>
  
  <blockquote>
    <p>
      The hand of the Lord was upon me, and he brought me out in the Spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley;<sup>[<a title="See footnote a" href="http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Ezekiel%2037&version=ESV#fen-ESV-21399a">a</a>]</sup> it was full of bones. <sup>2 </sup>And he led me around among them, and behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley, and behold, they were very dry. <sup>3 </sup>And he said to me, “Son of man, can these bones live?” And I answered, “O Lord God, you know.” <sup>4 </sup>Then he said to me, “Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. <sup>5 </sup>Thus says the Lord God to these bones: Behold, I will causebreath<sup>[<a title="See footnote b" href="http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Ezekiel%2037&version=ESV#fen-ESV-21403b">b</a>]</sup> to enter you, and you shall live. <sup>6 </sup>And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord.” <sup>7 </sup>So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a sound, and behold, a rattling,<sup>[<a title="See footnote c" href="http://www.biblegateway.com/passage/?search=Ezekiel%2037&version=ESV#fen-ESV-21405c">c</a>]</sup> and the bones came together, bone to its bone. <sup>8 </sup>And I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no breath in them. <sup>9 </sup>Then he said to me, “Prophesy to the breath; prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live.” <sup>10 </sup>So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived and stood on their feet, an exceedingly great army. <sup>11 </sup>Then he said to me, “Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, ‘Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are indeed cut off.’ <sup>12 </sup>Therefore prophesy, and say to them, Thus says the LordGod: Behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will bring you into the land of Israel. <sup>13 </sup>And you shall know that I am the Lord, when I open your graves, and raise you from your graves, O my people. <sup>14 </sup>And I will put my Spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord; I have spoken, and I will do it, declares the Lord.” &#8211; Ezekiel 37:1-14 (ESV)
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  
  <p>
    Do yourself a favor, read this passage in the ESV, it&#8217;s absolutely beautiful. The translation we had tonight was TNIV and it read like a committee report. Ezekiel is a book of poetry, and it should be read as such, I have a sinking suspicion that the ESV team is filled predominantly by English and Literature people, read Isaiah, you&#8217;ll agree with me.   <em>The hand of the LORD was upon me. </em>The vision starts by the will of the Lord, he leads, there doesn&#8217;t seem to be much choice. There&#8217;s echoes of Isaiah:
  </p>
  
  <blockquote>
    <p>
      For I, the Lord your God, hold your right hand; it is I who say to you, “Fear not, I am the one who helps you.” &#8211; Isaiah 41:13 (ESV)
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  
  <p>
    The right hand is the sword hand, the hand of power, the hand of protection.   <em>&#8230; he set me down in the middle of the valley [or plain]; it was full of bones. </em>Some scholars think this is referring to the place where Babel was built (no, not the Mumford and Sons album, the tall tower). If you <a title="Jesus Christ, Hope" href="http://www.nickrobison.com/2012/12/24/jesus-christ-hope/" target="_blank">remember from earlier</a>, Babel was built out of fear:
  </p>
  
  <blockquote>
    <p>
      Then they said, “Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth.” &#8211; Genesis 11:4 (ESV)
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  
  <p>
    Here the fear seems to have come true, there are forgotten. Nothing is left but their bones, their spirits are dispersed (we&#8217;ll get to that later).   <em>&#8216;Son of Man, can these bones live?&#8217; And I answered &#8216;O Lord God, you know&#8217;. </em>What sly response, Ezekiel can&#8217;t say &#8216;heck no, they<span style="line-height: 15px;">&#8216;re bones&#8217; because of course, God can do all things. But it would also be ludicrous to say &#8216;Of course, in fact, they&#8217;re just sleeping&#8217;, after wall, they&#8217;re bones. Reminds me of the Pharisees&#8217; response in Matthew 12. </span>   <em>&#8230;he led me around among them [&#8230;] Then he said to me &#8216;Prophesy over these bones&#8230;.&#8217; </em>The Lord led Ezekiel all through the valley, he saw every inch of the bones, he way they were dry, that there was absolutely nothing left of them. Later, the Lord calls them <em>The House of Israel</em>, the entirety of the people of Israel. Perhaps Ezekiel knew some of them, perhaps the Lord showed him past family and even future children. Like Dante&#8217;s journey through the spheres of heaven and hell, Ezekiel saw the history of Israel laid out before him in a bleached white blanket of death. <em>Can these bones live</em>?<em> </em>I imaged Ezekiel&#8217;s frustration, the impotence in the face of such death and loss. What can I do to make these bones alive again? What can I do to bring back my house? Nothing. Then the Lord flips it completely around. <em>Prophesy.</em> Prophesy is the act of calling forth things of the spirit into the physical world, by telling him to prophesy, the Lord was declaring the authority of the spiritual over the physical. <em>Prophesy. </em>Ezekiel was a prophet, and the Lord called him to minister within his gifting. He didn&#8217;t tell him to build something, or cook a casserole, or even preach fire and brimstone, he told him to prophesy with poetry. The Lord has made each of us with unique giftings, talents, and abilities to be used by him in his battlings (to borrow at phrase from Oswald Chambers), he intends to use us, and to use us in the areas we&#8217;ve trained for.
  </p>
  
  <blockquote>
    <p>
      Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. And I will lay sinews upon you, and will cause flesh to come upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord.”
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  
  <p>
    Wow, just wow.   <em>&#8230;there was a sound, and behold, a rattling. </em>No theology here, just great onomatopoeia. It reminds me of what happens when you jump on <em>Dry Bones </em>in Super Mario Brothers, and then he comes back right when you can&#8217;t get away.   <em>&#8230;But there was no breath in them. </em>Ezekiel prophesied and behold, Zombies! Just kidding, zombies aren&#8217;t real&#8230;yet. Here we see the distinction between the body and spirit, the dualism of the physical and the spiritual. Bodies are flesh, sinews, and bones, it&#8217;s the soul that makes them whole. This has two dimensions to it, one is the echoes back to creation where all of life was created by the command of God, but man was formed by his stooping down to the dust. Man is not simply another Animal, he is filled with the spirit of the living God. The second points to the fact that man is not complete without the breath of God, he has a body, but he&#8217;s not done yet, there&#8217;s more to come.   <em>&#8230;prophesy to the breath&#8230;say to the breath&#8230;.. </em>
  </p>
  
  <!-- kcite active, but no citations found -->
</div>

<!-- kcite-section 482 -->