<div class="kcite-section" kcite-section-id="600">
  <p>
    The other week I <a title="PeerCDN GigaOm Article" href="http://gigaom.com/2013/03/28/peercdn-p2p-cdn/" target="_blank">came across</a> a pretty cool piece of technology called <em><a title="PeerCDN" href="https://peercdn.com" target="_blank">PeerCDN</a>. </em>Originally described in a 2008 paper <span class="kcite" kcite-id="ITEM-600-0">(<a href="10.1109/CIT.2008.4594743">10.1109/CIT.2008.4594743</a>)</span> the basic idea is similar to that of technologies such as BitTorrent where important data is copied and distributed through a group of peers, in this case site users. What makes this approach unique is that instead of relying on plugins or client programs its uses a new protocol known as <em><a title="WebRTC" href="http://www.webrtc.org/" target="_blank">WebRTC</a> </em>which is pure Javascript and doesn&#8217;t require any user intervention and simply &#8216;works&#8217;, provided the user is running the latest version of Chrome or a Firefox Nightly.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Why this is so cool is that traditional CDN networks can be really expensive, around these parts we use <em><a title="Cloudflare is cool" href="https://www.cloudflare.com/" target="_blank">Cloudflare</a> </em>which is free for small sites but not for real people. Another issue is the locality of CDN servers, while a site may be really popular in Juneau, Alaska if the nearest Akami data center is in Seattle users will still face a pretty significant delay. So what if you could use your site users to mirror and share your content for you? Oh wait, now you can.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    So, while this is a really cool and clever system, it unfortunately raises a few important questions.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    First, as far as I can tell, there&#8217;s no way for a user to control whether or not they wish to participate in a peer network, it&#8217;s simply enabled for any site that implements <em>PeerCDN</em>. Can you assume that if a user chooses to visit a website that they also consent to sharing files with other users? This issue becomes especially important for users staring down draconian bandwidths caps
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Not only that, there&#8217;s currently no requirement for sites to announce that they&#8217;re using
  </p>
  
  <h2>
    Bibliography
  </h2>
  
  <div class="kcite-bibliography">
  </div>
</div>

<!-- kcite-section 600 -->