Over the past few days I&#8217;ve been working tirelessly to get WordPress running quickly and efficiently on Amazon&#8217;s EC2 services, for reasons [detailed earlier][1]. As it&#8217;s taken quite a bit of work to cobble something together using information gathered from the dark corners of the internet I thought it might be helpful to compile it all here. Thus we arrive at this blog&#8217;s inaugural technical post! How exciting. I&#8217;ll do my best to be both comprehensive and brief, so as not to bog down in details. So here we go:

**Amazon Configuration (<a title="Wordpress on Amazon EC2 - Stephen White" href="http://stephen-white.blogspot.com/2012/05/how-to-set-up-wordpress-on-amazon-ec2_31.html" target="_blank">third</a> party articles)**



1. Login to the <a title="AWS Console" href="https://console.aws.amazon.com" target="_blank">AWS Console</a>

At this point you may want to consider enabling <i><a title="AWS MFA" href="http://aws.amazon.com/mfa/" target="_blank">AWS Multi-Factor</a></i><a title="AWS MFA" href="http://aws.amazon.com/mfa/" target="_blank"> Authentication</a>, especially if you&#8217;re like me and use similar passwords over multiple services (I know, I know). You can use something simple like <em><a title="Google Authenticator" href="http://support.google.com/accounts/bin/answer.py/ref&#61;en/ref&#61;1066447" target="_blank">Google Authenticator</a> </em>(iOS/Android) or <em><a title="Athenticator" href="http://www.windowsphone.com/en-us/store/app/authenticator/021dd79f-0598-e011-986b-78e7d1fa76f8" target="_blank">Authentictor</a> (</em>Windows Phone), or something a little fancier like <em><a title="Authy" href="https://www.authy.com/" target="_blank">Authy</a> </em>(iOS) (which you may need in the future, hint, hint). This isn&#8217;t a manditory step, but after reading <a title="Wired" href="http://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/2012/08/apple-amazon-mat-honan-hacking/" target="_blank">this</a> <em>Wired</em> article I&#8217;ve been enabling 2-factor security on almost everything, it just seems to make sense.



2. Create EC2 Image

* For this project we&#8217;ll be using the &#8216;micro&#8217; instances as they fit nicely within the _<a title="Free is always better" href="http://aws.amazon.com/free/" target="_blank">Free Usage Tier</a> _and even if you&#8217;ve already used your credits, they&#8217;re really cheap and fast to deploy. Each instance has 1 VCPU, 768MB of RAM, and 8GB of disk space. Nothing fancy, but more then enough for a simple blog.
* These directions are written for the 64-bit _Amazon Linux AMI 2012.09_, that&#8217;s an important distinction because if you&#8217;re super hipster and only use Ubuntu these directions will be as useless as a Mr. Coffee drip brewer; however, if you&#8217;re a normal person you&#8217;re probably planning on using real Linux to do this anyways and the Amazon image will work just fine for you.
* If you don&#8217;t select an _Availability Zone _(e.g. &#8216;No Preference&#8217;) make sure you note which zone the instance lands in, as you&#8217;ll need it for the EBS volumes. If you have existing volumes, make sure you put the instance in the correct zone (e.g. &#8216;us-west-2a&#8217;).
* If you don&#8217;t have a _Key Pair__ _you&#8217;ll need to create one; also, if you have an existing key that you use for some private services (e.g. personal backups, etc) make sure you create a key ONLY for the services you want to share with the rest of the world (whether those services are actually worth sharing is beyond the scope of this article). Do NOT loose this key, if you do you&#8217;ll be locked out of your instances and have to start over. Which is no fun if you have important things residing in said instances.
* You&#8217;ll need a security group that at the least opens up ports 80, 443, and 22. If you&#8217;re running any other services (e.g. phpMyAdmin) open those ports as well. You can always add ports later, but in my experience, you only realize it&#8217;s a port issue after about 90 minutes of banging your head against a wall, or recompiling everything.
* Launch that baby watch the internet monkeys do their magic.



3. Create EBS volumes

* If you feel your site deserves its own storage, or you need more then the 8GB provided, you can attach some additional EBS storage to your now running Micro instance. For me, I created a small (1GB) volume to run the Database and a larger (5GB) volume to host the actual site pages. It&#8217;s always a good idea to separate your IO streams as much as possible, so keeping the system, web site, and database on separate volumes makes at least some sense.
* Don&#8217;t forget to create the volumes in the same _Availability Zone_ as the EC2 instance (e.g. &#8216;us-west-2a&#8217;).
* Attach the volumes to the instance remembering which /dev/ you selected (e.g. database: /dev/sdb. webstorage: /dev/sdc). It&#8217;s also a good idea to take the time to label everything in the console, as your services grow they all start to look the same and things get confusing.



4. Attach Elastic IP

* Each EC2 instance comes with a single static IP address, but you need to _Allocate _it and _Associate_ it with the relevant machine. Make a note of this address, you&#8217;ll need it to _SSH_ into the instance.



**Server Configuration**

1. _SSH_ into the instance (you did open port 22, right?)


2. Install a whole slew of requirements for all the various packages and plugins we&#8217;ll be using.


At this point it&#8217;s probably a good idea to:


and install all the updates (one of which is a kernel update) as once you get the site running it&#8217;s hard to take it down for a reboot.

3. Create the file systems on the EBS volumes

* <span style="line-height: 15px;">I used ext4 on both volumes, you may have your own favorite that you wish to use, that&#8217;s fine, this is a judgement free zone (I leave that to reddit). Just remember which device their attached to and partition appropriately. </span>


[1]: http://www.nickrobison.com/2013/01/03/home-sweet-home-3/ "Home, Sweet Home"