<div class="kcite-section" kcite-section-id="679">
  <p>
    Are you still there?
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Kidding of course, if you&#8217;re reading this you are in fact, there, or here. Depending on your perspective.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    It&#8217;s been a long time since I&#8217;ve written anything on here, I should probably make some comment about how busy I&#8217;ve been, but the truth is I&#8217;m just really lazy.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Anyways, 2013 was, in fact, a pretty full year, and I thought I&#8217;d share a few of the highlights here.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    <strong>Academia</strong>
  </p>
  
  <p>
    I completed my first full year of grad school, which is pretty excited. In my program (<a title="UW BHI" href="http://bhi.washington.edu" target="_blank">Biomedical and Health Informatics</a>) you complete all your required courses in the first year, and from then on out, it&#8217;s optional classes and research. Our program focuses on developing a broad base of understanding, instead of simply digging really into a single area, so my courses covered everything from public health, to teaching.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    Speaking of teaching, in the spring I had the opportunity to give 2 lectures at a local high school to talk about sexually transmitted infections and how it relates to informatics. Quite an interesting combination and provided a really great opportunity in translating what I do, into language that normal people would interesting and understandable. I think I succeeded.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    I also had the chance to present a portion of my research at the<em> </em><em><a title="MEDINFO 2013" href="http://www.medinfo2013.dk" target="_blank">2013 World Congress on Medical Informatics</a>. </em>If you&#8217;re interested, you can read the poster <a title="Robison Poster" href="http://ebooks.iospress.nl/publication/34360" target="_blank">here</a>. Since the conference was held in Denmark this year, I went out early and spent some time with my host family and various church friends, whom I hadn&#8217;t seen in over a year. It was really an awesome experience and one of the many perks of being a grad student.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    My final academic action of 2013 was to submit an application to the <em>Masters in Public Health </em>program here at the UW <em><a title="UW School of Public Health" href="http://sph.washington.edu" target="_blank">School of Public Health</a> </em>for their program in <em>Health Systems and Policy.</em> Over the past few years, I&#8217;ve really taken an interest in not only public health, but also in policy development and its interplays with technology. Since my research is focused around data use for research, there&#8217;s a major legal/political component and the MPH program should provide much a really great base with which to apply to the PhD dissertation. I should find out if I&#8217;m accepted sometime in early spring. Since UW is so highly ranked (currently tied for 6th in the nation), the application process is extremely competitive, so I&#8217;m super optimistic that I&#8217;ll get accepted, but if I do I should be able to complete the requirements within the 2 years I have left here at UW. The timeline may be optimistic, but we&#8217;ll let it slide for right now.
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    <strong>Personal</strong>
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <p>
    &nbsp;
  </p>
  
  <!-- kcite active, but no citations found -->
</div>

<!-- kcite-section 679 -->