<div class="kcite-section" kcite-section-id="806">
  <blockquote>
    <p>
      Lord God,<br /> Creator of earth and matter,<br /> You both dazzle and hide,<br /> You call both light and shadow to be,<br /> You dwell on mountaintops,<br /> And in the nooks and crevices of the mountainside<br /> You speak in both fire and whispers.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Your very material creation &#8211;<br /> With all of its dirt and blood<br /> All of its smells and tastes,<br /> Is a playground for thought.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      And so we &#8211; graced, privileged, and called &#8211; play<br /> At what must seem to you, sometimes, just games<br /> Is God to be found in the world? we ask, almost serious.<br /> Is the world the folding and unfolding of God&#8217;s immanence?<br /> we inquire.<br /> As we try our questions, surely you chuckle, Lord &#8211;<br /> But I think that you chuckle because you like to play along &#8211;<br /> That you are glorified in our play, even our serious academic play.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Only you, Lord, God of a richly folded creation,<br /> Could be found in a place like Deleuze or Badiou,<br /> Could surprise us in the pleats of French philosophers,<br /> Could whisper in the creases of continental ontology.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Lord Jesus, you &#8216;snuck yourself in matter&#8217; for our sakes,<br /> That we might be pulled out of our flat absorption in immanence &#8211;<br /> To be the &#8216;charged&#8217; material image bearers of divine excess.<br /> Help us, then, Lord, to be your disciples above all &#8211;<br /> To discern what these texts mean for our discipleship,<br /> For our being-in-the-world<br /> Our being-for-others,<br /> And our being-for-you.
    </p>
    
    <p>
      Amen
    </p>
  </blockquote>
  
  <p>
    &#8211; James K.A. Smith <i>Opening Prayer, Continental Philosophy Seminar, April 2003</i>
  </p>
  
  <!-- kcite active, but no citations found -->
</div>

<!-- kcite-section 806 -->